MAMMOTH HOT SPRINGS, WY – There will be two major road improvement projects in Yellowstone National Park in 2024. The Lewis River Bridge and Yellowstone River Bridge projects will cause traffic delays. It’s important that visitors plan accordingly for these delays located along the park’s southern and northern road corridors.

1. Lewis River Bridge

Location: Nearly 10 miles north of the South Entrance on the South Entrance Road

Access: In 2024, expect up to 20-minute delays while roads are open to wheeled vehicles (May-Oct. 31). Nearby pullouts and the trail to Lewis River Falls will be closed during construction.

Improvements: This project began in 2022 and will conclude fall 2024. It includes the removal and replacement of the Lewis River Bridge. The existing bridge will be removed, and a new bridge will be constructed immediately downstream. The project includes additional parking and viewing opportunities.

2. Yellowstone River Bridge

Location: Near Tower Junction along the Northeast Entrance Road

Access: In 2024, expect up to 30-minute delays. The Northeast Entrance Road is open year-round to wheeled vehicles. Hiking trails in the area may temporarily close during the duration of the project. Visit the Backcountry Situation Report for details.

Improvements: This project began in 2023 and will conclude fall 2026. It includes the replacement of the structurally deficient Yellowstone River Bridge built in 1961. A new 1,285-foot-long, 175-foot-high steel girder bridge upstream will replace the existing 604-foot-long bridge to preserve year-round access to/from the Northeast Entrance and communities of Silver Gate and Cooke City, Montana. New pullouts, paved parking areas, and dedicated route across the new bridge will increase access to trails, fishing and viewpoints. The Yellowstone River Picnic Area will be enlarged to accommodate increased visitor use.

Temporary delays or closures can happen at any time on park roads. Stay informed.

Visit Yellowstone’s website at Park Roads.

Call 307-344-2117 for recorded information.

Receive Yellowstone road alerts on your mobile phone by texting “82190” to 888-777 (an automatic text reply will confirm receipt and provide instructions).

Before traveling, check road conditions outside of Yellowstone in Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, and Grand Teton National Park and view the park webcams to see current traffic conditions at the North and West entrances to Yellowstone.
